= Algebra View
:page-en: Algebra_View
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /en/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

== [#Algebra_View_User_Interface]#image:24px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=24,height=24] Algebra View User Interface#

By default, the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ is opened
next to the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
_xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View]_. In addition, either the _xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[Input Bar]_ is displayed at the
bottom of the GeoGebra window (GeoGebra Desktop), or an _xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[Input Field]_ is integrated directly in
the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ (GeoGebra Web and
Tablet Apps). The xref:/tools/Graphics_Tools.adoc[_Graphics View Toolbar_] is displayed at the top of the GeoGebra
window, with the
image:16px-Menu-edit-undo.svg.png[Menu-edit-undo.svg,width=16,height=16]image:16px-Menu-edit-redo.svg.png[Menu-edit-redo.svg,width=16,height=16]
_Undo / Redo_ buttons in the top right corner.

[width="100%",cols="100%",]
|===
a|
image:350px-Algebra-View.png[Algebra-View.png,width=350,height=228]

GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps

a|
image:350px-Algebra-View-Desktop.png[Algebra-View-Desktop.png,width=350,height=226]

GeoGebra Desktop

|===

The image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ is part of the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Algebra
Perspective_], although you may xref:/GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App.adoc[change the layout] of GeoGebra's
user interface according to your needs.

== [#Creating_Mathematical_Objects]#Creating Mathematical Objects#

=== Direct Input

In the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ you can directly
enter algebraic expressions using the integrated xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[_Input Field_] (GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps) or
the _xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[Input Bar]_ at the bottom of the GeoGebra window (GeoGebra Desktop). After hitting the
[.kcode]#Enter# key your algebraic input appears in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ while its graphical representation is automatically displayed in the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16]
_xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View]_.

[EXAMPLE]
====

The input `++y = 2 x + 3++` gives you the linear equation in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ and the corresponding line in the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_.

====

=== Commands

GeoGebra also offers a wide range of _xref:/Commands.adoc[Commands]_ that can be used to create objects in the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. Just start typing the
name of a _Command_ into the _Input Bar_ or _Input Field_ and GeoGebra will offer you a list of _Commands_ that match
your input.

=== Tools

Although the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ doesn’t have
it’s own _Toolbar_, you can create xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[_Dependent Objects_]. Select a tool
from the _Graphics View Toolbar_ and click on any appropriate object in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu
view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ in order to create a new _Dependent Object_.

[EXAMPLE]
====

Create two points _A_ and _B_, whose coordinates are displayed in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. Select the image:16px-Mode_join.svg.png[Mode
join.svg,width=16,height=16] _xref:/tools/Line.adoc[Line Tool]_ from the _Graphics View Toolbar_ and click on both
points in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ in order to
create a line through points _A_ and _B_.

====

=== Modifying Mathematical Objects

You can modify the algebraic representation of mathematical objects directly in the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_.

Activate the image:16px-Mode_move.svg.png[Mode move.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/tools/Move.adoc[_Move_] tool and
double-click a xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[_Free Object_] in the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. In the appearing text box
you can directly modify its algebraic representation. After hitting the [.kcode]#Enter# key, both the algebraic
representation in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ and
the graphical representation of the object in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics
View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View]_ will automatically adapt to
your changes.

If you double-click on a xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[_Dependent Object_] in the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_, a dialog window appears
allowing you to xref:/Redefine_Dialog.adoc[Redefine] the object.

== [#Display_of_Mathematical_Objects]#Display of Mathematical Objects#

By default, mathematical objects are organized by _Object Types_ in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. In GeoGebra Desktop, you may use the xref:/Algebra_View.adoc[_Style Bar_
option] image:16px-Stylingbar_algebraview_sort_objects_by.svg.png[Stylingbar algebraview sort objects
by.svg,width=16,height=16] _Sort by_ in order to re-sort the objects by _Dependency_, _Layer_ or _Construction Order_.

[NOTE]
====

*image:18px-Bulbgraph.png[Note,title="Note",width=18,height=22] Hint:* You can collapse or expand each group of objects
individually (e.g. all points, all free objects, all objects on a specific layer) by clicking on the plus or minus
symbol in front of the group’s name.

====

=== xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[Algebra View Style Bar]

The xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[_Algebra View Style Bar_] provides buttons to

* show / hide image:16px-Stylingbar_algebraview_auxiliary_objects.svg.png[Stylingbar algebraview auxiliary
objects.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[_Auxiliary Objects_]
* image:16px-Stylingbar_algebraview_sort_objects_by.svg.png[Stylingbar algebraview sort objects
by.svg,width=16,height=16] sort the list of objects by different criteria
* display additional image:16px-Stylingbar_dots.svg.png[Stylingbar dots.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Views.adoc[_Views_] in the GeoGebra window (GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps)

=== Hiding Mathematical Objects in the Algebra View

If you want to hide the algebraic representation of an object in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_, you may specify the object as an
xref:/Free_Dependent_and_Auxiliary_Objects.adoc[_Auxiliary Object_]. Open the tab _Basic_ of the
image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Properties_Dialog.adoc[Properties Dialog] and
check _Auxiliary Object_.

By default, _Auxiliary Objects_ are not shown in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. You can change this setting by selecting _Auxiliary Objects_ from the
_xref:/Context_Menu.adoc[Context Menu]_ (right-click or Mac OS [.kcode]#Ctrl#-click), or by selecting on the appropriate
icon in the xref:/Algebra_View.adoc[_Algebra View Style Bar_].
