= GeoGebra 5.0 Desktop vs. Web and Tablet App
:page-en: GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /en/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

:toc:

== One Software in Different Packages

Depending on your hardware and preferences, you can currently choose between two versions of GeoGebra 5.0,
image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14]
http://www.geogebra.org/cms/en/download/%7CGeoGebra[5.0 Desktop] and the
image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23]
http://www.geogebra.org/cms/en/download/%7CGeoGebra[5.0 Web and Tablet Apps]. While all versions provide the full power
of GeoGebra, their user interfaces are slightly different.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
a|
image:387px-Algebra-View-Desktop.png[Algebra-View-Desktop.png,width=387,height=250]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] GeoGebra 5.0 Desktop

a|
image:384px-Algebra-View.png[Algebra-View.png,width=384,height=250]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] GeoGebra 5.0 Web and
Tablet Apps

|===

== Selecting a xref:/Perspectives.adoc[Perspective]

When you open image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] *GeoGebra
5.0 Desktop* on your computer, by default the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] _Algebra Perspective_ is displayed, consisting of the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Algebra_View.adoc[_Algebra View_],
the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[_Graphics
View_], and the xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[_Input Bar_] at the bottom of the screen. You may switch to another _Perspective_
at any time by clicking on the arrow on the right side of the GeoGebra window and selecting the _Perspective_ you want
from the _Perspectives_ sidebar.

When you open the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23]
*GeoGebra 5.0 Web and Tablet Apps*, the _Perspectives Start Screen_ appears, allowing you to select the
xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Perspective_] that best fits the mathematical topic you want to work with. You can switch to
another _Perspective_ at any time by clicking on the
image:16px-Menu-button-open-menu.svg.png[Menu-button-open-menu.svg,width=16,height=16] _Menu_ button in the upper right
corner of the GeoGebra window and selecting the _Perspective_ you want from the
image:14px-Perspectives.svg.png[Perspectives.svg,width=14,height=14] _Perspectives_ menu.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
a|
image:372px-Algebra-View-Desktop-Perspectives-Sidebar.png[Algebra-View-Desktop-Perspectives-Sidebar.png,width=372,height=240]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] GeoGebra 5.0 Desktop

a|
image:369px-Algebra-View-Perspectives-Menu.png[Algebra-View-Perspectives-Menu.png,width=369,height=240]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] GeoGebra 5.0 Web and
Tablet Apps

|===

== xref:/Menubar.adoc[Menubar]

In image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] *GeoGebra 5.0
Desktop* the xref:/Menubar.adoc[_Menubar_] is displayed at the top of the GeoGebra window.

In the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] *GeoGebra 5.0
Web and Tablet Apps* you need to select the
image:16px-Menu-button-open-menu.svg.png[Menu-button-open-menu.svg,width=16,height=16] _Menu_ button in the upper right
corner of the GeoGebra window in order to open the xref:/Menubar.adoc[_Menu_].

== xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[Input Bar and Input Field]

In image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] *GeoGebra 5.0
Desktop*, the _Input Bar_ is displayed at the bottom of the GeoGebra window by default. This can be changed by clicking
on the image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16] _Preferences_ button and selecting the
image:16px-Menu-perspectives.svg.png[Menu-perspectives.svg,width=16,height=16] _Layout_ option.

In the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] *GeoGebra 5.0
Web and Tablet Apps*, an _Input Field_ is integrated in the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view
algebra.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Algebra_View.adoc[_Algebra View_]. However, you may display the _Input Bar_ using
the image:16px-Menu-view.svg.png[Menu-view.svg,width=16,height=16] _View_ menu. Just select the
image:16px-Menu-button-open-menu.svg.png[Menu-button-open-menu.svg,width=16,height=16] _Menu_ button in the upper right
corner of the GeoGebra window and check _Input Bar_ in the
image:16px-Menu-view.svg.png[Menu-view.svg,width=16,height=16] _View_ menu.

== xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[Style Bar]

In image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] *GeoGebra 5.0
Desktop*, select the object you want to change and click on the little arrow in the upper left corner of a
xref:/Views.adoc[_View_] in order to open the _xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[Style Bar]_. If no object is selected, the
xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[_Style Bar_ for the corresponding _View_] is displayed.

In the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] *GeoGebra 5.0
Web and Tablet Apps*, select the object you want to change and click on the
image:16px-Menu-button-open-menu.svg.png[Menu-button-open-menu.svg,width=16,height=16] _Style Bar Button_ in the upper
right corner of a xref:/Views.adoc[_View_] in order to open the _Style Bar_. If no object is selected, the
xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[_Style Bar_ for the corresponding _View_] is displayed. Please note that a button to display
additional xref:/Views.adoc[_Views_] in the GeoGebra window is also part of the xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[_Style Bar_].

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
a|
image:372px-Stylebar-open-Desktop.png[Stylebar-open-Desktop.png,width=372,height=240]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] GeoGebra 5.0 Desktop

a|
image:369px-Stylebar-open.png[Stylebar-open.png,width=369,height=240]

image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] GeoGebra 5.0 Web and
Tablet Apps

|===

== Customizing the Layout of the User Interface

In image:20px-Download-icons-device-screen.png[Download-icons-device-screen.png,width=20,height=14] *GeoGebra 5.0
Desktop*, you may use the image:16px-Menu-perspectives.svg.png[Menu-perspectives.svg,width=16,height=16] _Layout_ option
in order to change the positions of the _xref:/Views.adoc[Views]_ and other user interface components (e.g.
_xref:/Toolbar.adoc[Toolbar]_, _xref:/Sidebar.adoc[Sidebar]_). You may access the
image:16px-Menu-perspectives.svg.png[Menu-perspectives.svg,width=16,height=16] _Layout_ option using the
image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Settings_Dialog.adoc[_Preferences Dialog_] or
the _xref:/View_Menu.adoc[View Menu]_.

In the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] *GeoGebra 5.0
Web App*, you may use the image:18px-Stylingbar_drag_view.svg.png[Stylingbar drag view.svg,width=18,height=18] _Drag
View Button_ in order to change the positions of the _xref:/Views.adoc[Views]_ within the GeoGebra window. The
image:18px-Stylingbar_drag_view.svg.png[Stylingbar drag view.svg,width=18,height=18] _Drag View Button_ appears in the
upper right corner of each xref:/Views.adoc[_View_] whenever either the _xref:/Perspectives_Menu.adoc[Perspectives
Menu]_ or the _xref:/View_Menu.adoc[View Menu]_ is open.

In the image:20px-Download-icons-device-tablet.png[Download-icons-device-tablet.png,width=20,height=23] *GeoGebra 5.0
Tablet App*, customizing the layout of the user interface is currently not possible.
