= Perspectives
:page-en: Perspectives
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /en/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

== [#Standard_Perspectives]#Standard Perspectives#

[cols=",,",]
|===
|xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=40,height=40]]
xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Algebra_] |xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Perspectives_geometry.svg.png[Perspectives
geometry.svg,width=40,height=40]] xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Geometry_]
|xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Menu_view_spreadsheet.svg.png[Menu view spreadsheet.svg,width=40,height=40]]
xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Spreadsheet_]

|xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Menu_view_cas.svg.png[Menu view cas.svg,width=40,height=40]]
xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_CAS_] |xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Perspectives_algebra_3Dgraphics.svg.png[Perspectives
algebra 3Dgraphics.svg,width=40,height=40]] xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_3D Graphics_]
|xref:/Perspectives.adoc[image:40px-Menu_view_probability.svg.png[Menu view probability.svg,width=40,height=40]]
xref:/Perspectives.adoc[_Probability_]
|===

GeoGebra provides a set of standard _Perspectives_. You can easily switch between _Perspectives_ using the _Perspectives
Sidebar_ (GeoGebra Desktop) or the image:16px-Menu-perspectives.svg.png[Menu-perspectives.svg,width=16,height=16]
_Perspectives Menu_ (GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps). For more information please check out
xref:/GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App.adoc[Selecting a _Perspective_].

=== image:32px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Menu view algebra.svg,width=32,height=32] Algebra Perspective

The _Algebra Perspective_ consists of the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Algebra
View,title="Algebra View",width=16,height=16] xref:/Algebra_View.adoc[Algebra View] and the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16]
xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View]. By default, the coordinate axes are shown in the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_.
Furthermore, the _Graphics View Toolbar_ is displayed at the top of the GeoGebra window. Please note that in _GeoGebra
5.0 Desktop_ the xref:/Input_Bar.adoc[_Input Bar_] is displayed as well at the bottom of the GeoGebra window while in
the _GeoGebra 5.0 Web and Tablet Apps_ an _Input Field_ is integrated into the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Algebra View,title="Algebra View",width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ (see
xref:/GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App.adoc[Input Bar and Input Field]).

=== image:32px-Perspectives_geometry.svg.png[Perspectives geometry.svg,width=32,height=32] Geometry Perspective

The _Geometry Perspective_ displays the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics
View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_ without the coordinate axes, as well as the _Graphics
View Toolbar_.

=== image:32px-Menu_view_spreadsheet.svg.png[Menu view spreadsheet.svg,width=32,height=32] Spreadsheet Perspective

The _Spreadsheet Perspective_ consists of the image:16px-Menu_view_spreadsheet.svg.png[Spreadsheet
View,title="Spreadsheet View",width=16,height=16] xref:/Spreadsheet_View.adoc[Spreadsheet View] and the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_. By
default, the coordinate axes are shown in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics
View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_. Depending on which of these _Views_ is activated, either
the _Graphics View Toolbar_ or the _Spreadsheet View Toolbar_ are shown at the top of the GeoGebra window.

=== image:32px-Menu_view_cas.svg.png[Menu view cas.svg,width=32,height=32] CAS Perspective

The _CAS Perspective_ consists of the image:16px-Menu_view_cas.svg.png[CAS View,title="CAS View",width=16,height=16]
xref:/CAS_View.adoc[CAS View] and the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics
View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_. By default, the coordinate axes are shown in the
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_. Depending
on which of these _Views_ is activated, either the _Graphics View Toolbar_ or the _CAS View Toolbar_ are shown at the
top of the GeoGebra window.

=== image:32px-Perspectives_algebra_3Dgraphics.svg.png[Perspectives algebra 3Dgraphics.svg,width=32,height=32] 3D Graphics Perspective

The _3D Graphics Perspective_ consists of the image:16px-Perspectives_algebra_3Dgraphics.svg.png[3D Graphics
View,title="3D Graphics View",width=16,height=16] xref:/3D_Graphics_View.adoc[3D Graphics View] and the
image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Algebra View,title="Algebra View",width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_. By default,
the coordinate axes and the _xOy_-plane are shown in the image:16px-Perspectives_algebra_3Dgraphics.svg.png[3D Graphics
View,title="3D Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _3D Graphics View_. Furthermore, the _3D Graphics View Toolbar_ is
displayed at the top of the GeoGebra window. Please note that in _GeoGebra 5.0 Desktop_ the _Input Bar_ is displayed as
well at the bottom of the GeoGebra window while in the _GeoGebra 5.0 Web and Tablet App_ an _Input Field_ is integrated
into the image:16px-Menu_view_algebra.svg.png[Algebra View,title="Algebra View",width=16,height=16] _Algebra View_ (see
xref:/GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App.adoc[Input Bar and Input Field]).

=== image:32px-Menu_view_probability.svg.png[Menu view probability.svg,width=32,height=32] Probability Perspective

The _Probability Perspective_ shows the image:16px-Menu_view_probability.svg.png[Probability
Calculator,title="Probability Calculator",width=16,height=16] xref:/Probability_Calculator.adoc[_Probability
Calculator_], which allows you to easily calculate and graph probability distributions.

== [#Customized_Perspectives]#Customized Perspectives#

GeoGebra allows you to customize its user interface according to the mathematical topic you want to work with. You can
add additional _xref:/Views.adoc[Views]_ or other user interface components (e.g. _Input Bar_, second
image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Graphics View,title="Graphics View",width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_) to the
standard _Perspectives_ by using the image:16px-Menu-view.svg.png[Menu-view.svg,width=16,height=16] _View Menu_ or the
corresponding image:16px-Stylingbar_dots.svg.png[Stylingbar dots.svg,width=16,height=16] _Views Button_ in the
_xref:/Style_Bar.adoc[Style Bar]_ (GeoGebra Web and Tablet Apps). Furthermore, you can change the position of some of
these elements using the _Layout_ option in the image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16]
_xref:/Settings_Dialog.adoc[Settings Dialog]_ in GeoGebra Desktop or the
image:16px-Stylingbar_drag_view.svg.png[Stylingbar drag view.svg,width=16,height=16] _Drag View Button_ in the Web App.
For more information please see xref:/GeoGebra_5_0_Desktop_vs_Web_and_Tablet_App.adoc[Customizing the Layout of the User
Interface].
