= Slider Tool
:page-en: tools/Slider
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: /en/modules/ROOT/assets/images]

Click on any free place in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View] to create a slider for a number or an angle. The appearing dialog window allows
you to specify the _Name_, _Interval_ [_min_, _max_], and _Increment_ of the number or angle, as well as the _Alignment_, and its _Speed_ and _Animation_ modality.

[NOTE]
====

In the Slider dialog window you can enter a degree symbol ° or _pi (π)_ for the interval and increment by using the
following keyboard shortcuts:

* [.kcode]#Alt# + [.kcode]#O# (Mac OS: [.kcode]#Ctrl# + [.kcode]#O#) for the degree symbol °
* [.kcode]#Alt# + [.kcode]#P# (Mac OS: [.kcode]#Ctrl# + [.kcode]#P#) for the pi symbol _π_

====

The position of a slider may be absolute in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view
graphics.svg,width=16,height=16] _Graphics View_ (this means that the slider is not affected by zooming, but always
remains in the visible part of the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
_Graphics View_) or relative to the coordinate system (This can be changed afterwards in the
image:16px-Menu-options.svg.png[Menu-options.svg,width=16,height=16] xref:/Properties_Dialog.adoc[Properties Dialog] of
the corresponding number or angle).

[NOTE]
====

* In GeoGebra, a slider is the graphical representation of a xref:/Numbers_and_Angles.adoc[free number or free angle].
You can easily create a slider for any existing xref:/Numbers_and_Angles.adoc[free number or angle] by showing this
object in the image:16px-Menu_view_graphics.svg.png[Menu view graphics.svg,width=16,height=16]
xref:/Graphics_View.adoc[Graphics View] (see xref:/Context_Menu.adoc[Context Menu]; see tool
image:22px-Mode_showhideobject.svg.png[Mode showhideobject.svg,width=22,height=22]
xref:/tools/Show_Hide_Object.adoc[Show/Hide Object]).

====

== Fixed sliders

Like other objects, sliders can be xref:/Object_Properties.adoc[fixed]. To translate a fixed slider when
image:22px-Mode_move.svg.png[Mode move.svg,width=22,height=22]xref:/tools/Move.adoc[Move Tool] is selected, you can drag
it with your right mouse button. When image:26px-Mode_slider.svg.png[Mode slider.svg,width=26,height=26] *Slider Tool*
is selected, you can use either left or right button. Sliders made with the image:26px-Mode_slider.svg.png[Mode
slider.svg,width=26,height=26] *Slider Tool* are not fixed by default. You can change value of fixed slider by simply
clicking it.

[NOTE]
====

See also the xref:/commands/Slider.adoc[Slider] command.

====
